#LyX 2.3 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 544
\begin_document
\begin_header
\save_transient_properties true
\origin unavailable
\textclass article
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman "default" "default"
\font_sans "default" "default"
\font_typewriter "default" "default"
\font_math "auto" "auto"
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100 100
\font_tt_scale 100 100
\use_microtype false
\use_dash_ligatures true
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 1
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 1
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 1
\use_package stmaryrd 1
\use_package undertilde 1
\cite_engine basic
\cite_engine_type default
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 1
\use_minted 0
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\is_math_indent 0
\math_numbering_side default
\quotes_style english
\dynamic_quotes 0
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Title
Intelligent Data Analysis - Homework 1.3
\end_layout

\begin_layout Author
Panagiotis Michalopoulos, Javier de la Rua, Michail Gongolidis, 
\begin_inset Newline newline
\end_inset

Ignacio Rodriguez, Daniel Minguez
\end_layout

\begin_layout Date
November 4th, 2018
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Dimensionality reduction: PCA Analysis
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Perform a Principal Component Analysis on the wine data set
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsubsection
Decide whether to use matrix S or R to extract the principal components.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
<x<zxz<x<zxz<x<zcsdvsdfdsadfsdwgfweqfxcsg
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsubsection
Describe the 4 first components, the proportion of variance explained and
 which variables constribute the most to each one.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
sadsadasdasd
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsubsection
Try to give an interpretation of the first two PC's.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsubsection
Does any of the two first components separate wines by their "type"? Plot
 the observations on the space spanned by the two first components and colour
 them according to "type".
 What do you observe?
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsubsection
Plot the observations on the space spanned by the two first components and
 colour them according to "quality".
 Is there anything that deserves a comment? 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsubsection
Plot the circle of correlations and draw up some conclusion(s).
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Perform a Principal Component Analysis on the cars data set (on the set
 of 5 quantitative variables).
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsubsection
Interpret your results.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsubsection
Plot the circle of correlations and draw some conclusion(s).
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsubsection
Use the k-means function in R on the five principal component scores with
 k=3, nstart=25 and iter.max=100.
 Before running it, set the random seed to 12345 to obtain reproducible
 results (set.seed(12345)).
 Explore visually how well the clustering recovers the actual origin of
 the cars.
 Conclusions.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsubsection
k-mean clustering.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize

\series bold
Function 1:
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize

\series bold
Function 2:
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize

\series bold
Function 3:
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsubsection
Repeat the same analysis using cylinders as the categorical variable to
 be matched by the clustering algorithm.
 As there is only one car with 3 cylinders, don't use it in the analysis
 and consider the variable cylinder taking values 4, 6 and 8.
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
