#LyX 2.3 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 544
\begin_document
\begin_header
\save_transient_properties true
\origin unavailable
\textclass article
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman "default" "default"
\font_sans "default" "default"
\font_typewriter "default" "default"
\font_math "auto" "auto"
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100 100
\font_tt_scale 100 100
\use_microtype false
\use_dash_ligatures true
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 1
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 1
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 1
\use_package stmaryrd 1
\use_package undertilde 1
\cite_engine basic
\cite_engine_type default
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 1
\use_minted 0
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\is_math_indent 0
\math_numbering_side default
\quotes_style english
\dynamic_quotes 0
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Title
Intelligent Data Analysis - Homework 1.2
\end_layout

\begin_layout Author
Panagiotis Michalopoulos, Javier de la Rua, Michail Gongolidis, 
\begin_inset Newline newline
\end_inset

Ignacio Rodriguez, Daniel Minguez
\end_layout

\begin_layout Date
October 24th, 2018
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Basic exploration of a dataset
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Introduction
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Descriptive statistics
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsubsection
Questions
\end_layout

\begin_layout Description
a) 
\series bold
Choose a quantitative variable and explore its distribution in terms of
 descriptive measures of center, dispersion, skewness and kurtosis.
 Is a normal model a plausible one for its distribution? If the answer is
 no, can you think of a transformation of the variable that improves normality.
 Are there any outliers?
\end_layout

\begin_layout Description
b) 
\series bold
Choose two quantitative variables and describe its joint bivariate distribution.
 Does it seem to be Normal? Are there any outliers?
\end_layout

\begin_layout Description
c) 
\series bold
Choose a subset of 4 or 5 quantitative variables and explore linear relationship
s
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Permutation tests
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Choose a subset of 4 or 5 quantitative variables and explore linear relationship
s
\end_layout

\begin_layout Description
a) 
\series bold
R matrix of pairwise correlations
\end_layout

\begin_layout Description
b) 
\series bold
Matrix of partial correlations
\end_layout

\begin_layout Description
c) 
\series bold
Coefficient of determination (function r2multv() we define in R)
\end_layout

\begin_layout Description
d) 
\series bold
The determinant of R (correlation matrix) as an overall measure of linear
 relationships.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Description
e) 
\series bold
An eigenanalysis of matrix R, looking for really small eigenvalues.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Repeat the analysis deleting the values for three customers that left a
 tip greater than 30% of the bill.
 These generous customers seem to be outliers.
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
