#LyX 2.3 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 544
\begin_document
\begin_header
\save_transient_properties true
\origin unavailable
\textclass article
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman "default" "default"
\font_sans "default" "default"
\font_typewriter "default" "default"
\font_math "auto" "auto"
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100 100
\font_tt_scale 100 100
\use_microtype false
\use_dash_ligatures true
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 1
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 1
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 1
\use_package stmaryrd 1
\use_package undertilde 1
\cite_engine basic
\cite_engine_type default
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 1
\use_minted 0
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\is_math_indent 0
\math_numbering_side default
\quotes_style english
\dynamic_quotes 0
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Title
Intelligent Data Analysis - Homework 2.2
\end_layout

\begin_layout Author
Panagiotis Michalopoulos, Javier de la Rua, Michail Gongolidis, 
\begin_inset Newline newline
\end_inset

Ignacio Rodriguez, Daniel Minguez
\end_layout

\begin_layout Date
December 21st, 2018
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Obtain the estimated odds ratio and confidence intervals of crossing for
 car vs.
 truck at each traffic location.
 Interpret them and use the fourfold display to help you understand the
 output.
 Use also the mosaic function to interpret partial tables.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard

\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Obtain the estimated odds ratio of crossing vs.
 retreat without taking into account the third (control) variable.
 Would it be correct to exclude the effect of that third variable?
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Test the homogeneous association between X and Y controlling for Z (function
 woolf_test).
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Are X and Y conditional independent given Z?
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
